https://usmanali-arshi.github.io/comic-project/#
# Forbidden Love
Project Description: 
The project depicts the harsh reality of colourism and casteism within South Asian culture.
(Caste encompasses a complex ordering of social groups on the basis of ritual purity. A person is considered a member of the caste into which he or she is born and remains within that caste until death, although the particular ranking of that caste may vary among regions and over time. Differences in status are traditionally justified by the religious doctrine of karma, a belief that one's place in life is determined by one's deeds in previous lifetimes.)

The projects aims to give the user the experience of seeing this reality through the perspective of a "dark-skinned" South Asian boy. The first panel opens with a glimpse into the world of casual colourism that exists within South Asian societies. Our protagonist - Kashif - is an exploratory mind asking the hard questions and trying to dispel these backward notions. The root of this problem is described concisely through the interchange between Kashif and his friends who reply by saying that colourist thought was ingrained in them since thei childhood by their parents, and they are made to realize that they never actually qeustioned the thought, hence propagating the thought. 
The rest of the story follows the journey of Kashif through his university life when he first approaches matured and liberal thought amongst his generation through his girlfriend Layla and friend circle. He is finally able to forget about this harsh reeality through a beautiful love story and friendship. Aspects of this deeply-rooted colourism are still shown to the user through the disadvantages that Kashif faces in obtaining a job and the lower benefits that he receives. Kashif's story ends through the terrible exchange he has with Layla (which in reality were her parents writing the texts). This is quite realistic and portrays the reality of consrvative South Asian households where something as personal as love and marriage are still largely influenced and dictated by one's family.

## Ideation
As we wanted to tackle something we all experienced in our communities as all of our team member beloged from Desi (South Asian) communities. We ended up choosing this topic to reveal the discrimination and existence of racism and casteism in our societies. We chose to expand on this topic through a love story between a guy and a girl who belonged from different caste and played on to the tropes associated with colorism in our superficial society.  

## Process
In order to convey our message the fonts and backgrounds were chosen to portray the cultural setting of the comic. Each border in each panel sets up the mood of scene as in the last one as the scene gets dark, the borders are chosen to be black and white (without color).  Moreover, to retain interest of the reader/user, each panel has interactivity so user clicks to see what happens next. Almost in each panel, we have tried to end it with a conflict, to keep the user hooked to the story. Even the names of the characters signifies the role, each character plays in the story. Kashif which means revealer/discoverer reveals the bitter truths about the society. Layla which means night brings darkness to the world of Kashif at the end (spoiler alert!). 


## Reflection:
Due to the time constraints, we were unable to finish the girl's story which would've complemented the boy's story and would have added depth to the story line. As it was our first time using photoshop and illustrator, the animations and illustrations took a lot of time. However, we managed to convey the story using dialogues and illustrations. As we were aiming to communicate a broader topic, it was hard to go through the whole timeline, starting from Kashif's (protagonist) childhood to his early twenties, given the restriction of six panels per story. Overall, it was a learning experience as we struggled to do the styling and include interactions for amplifying user experience. Also, we better learnt how to work in a team, as we all sometimes had our own ideas but managed to work as a single team in producing this whole comic strip. 


